{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\author J. W. Bjerk}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12540\viewh14620\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Changelog:\
\

\fs24 1.0.3\
* This branch is added to the trunk as a mainline campaign
\f1\b0 \
   * images paths corrected for 1.1.1+SVN\
   * Campaign description simplified.
\f0\b \
\
1.0.2f\

\f1\b0 * Reverted changes in image path appropriate for 1.1.1+SVN, but not for the development binary.  Since the binaries are much more commonly used, future changes will be geared to work with the latest development binary.
\f0\b\fs32 \

\fs24 \

\f1\b0 * reorganized unit images for shorter path names.
\f0\b \

\f1\b0 * Deoran\
   * re-did portrait. (less like a stock unit portrait.)\
   * created 2 expressions for Deoran.  Unfortunately implementing them will be tricky. May have to decide between different advancement images and different expressions.\
   * Deleted unused, "lancer-commander" graphics. Identical to "horseman commander"\
* Gerrick: \
   * re-did portrait to make him look more like a tough veteran\
   * changed get-hit sound to "Groan-strong".  Made Shield attack sound different than Glaive.\
   * Infantry Commander: fixed the format of graphics: now actually transparent.\
   * Assault Commander: added corrected shadow, leading, attacking, & shield-attack frames.\
* Fixed SG AMLA mace to use "melee" rather than "short"\
\

\f0\b 1.0.2e
\f1\b0 \
* Enhanced Infantry Commander graphics: proper semi-transparent shadow, made leading animaed, slight cleanups\
* More correctly describe Garrick's weapon as "Glaive" instead of "Sword"\
* PNGCrushed all images\
* Created Changelog :)\
\

\f0\b 1.0.2d
\f1\b0 \
* removed "human-" and "undead-" from image names.\
* moved all portraits to portraits folder\
* fixed more image paths\
* added campaign description to .PBL\
* changed dread lich description to avoid reference to Ha'tiel\
\

\f0\b 1.0.2c
\f1\b0 \
Mostly edits to make it work with Wesnoth 1.1.1\
* removed special terrain CFG and made the maps use the mainline elvish tree\
* updated image paths to find moved images\
* fixed "short" attacks to "melee"\
* other changes...\
\
\

\f0\b\fs32 Known Issues:
\fs24 \
1.Born to the Banner: 
\f1\b0 \
* Deoran's instructions about moving between keep and citadel can assume he's somewhere he isn't if for instance you use Moreth to talk to Garrick.\
* It's quite difficult to get to the Merfolk village in time to make much use of them, perhaps it could be moved a bit closer?\
\

\f0\b 3.Vale of Tears: 
\f1\b0 \
* Deoran may ask Ethiliel "why won't other elves help us" after her bodyguard has appeared, making the question seem odd.
\f0\b \

\f1\b0  \

\f0\b Choice in the Fog
\f1\b0 \
*After allying with the Outlaws victory/defeat conditions were displayed.  "Death of Ethiliel" was still a defeat condition.  Scenario objective were not available thereafter until the next turn. "Death of Ethiliel" was still remained a defeat condition.\
\

\f0\b Pebbles in a Flood
\f1\b0 \
It's very unclear how this scenario will end from the description.  "Hold the line" Does that mean if an enemy crosses a certain point it will end. Does the death of either or both of Gerrick and the Outlaw end it?  Haven't played through it yet....\
* Also why add the poacher to the recruitment on this scenario. Doesn't seem like he'd be much use, but a new player would recruit him just for the novelty\
\

\f0\b Tides of War
\f1\b0 \
I was able to recall any units that were alive when the last hero died in Pebbles.  They should be dead.\
\

\f0\b All Scenarios:\

\f1\b0 Needs conversion to multi-track music system.\
\

\f0\b\fs32 Ideas:\

\fs24 Graphics:\

\f1\b0 *Give Deoran expressions\
* Minister Hyleas Portrait\

\f0\b Gameplay:
\f1\b0 \
* Randomize the "choice in the fog" map or make 2-4 variant maps that would be chosen randomly.  To enhance the "we're lost!" feel.\
* It would be nice to be able to keep Ethiliel's bodyguard after Vale of Tears.\
* Activate Scott's L3 bandit pack after its included as a mainline option.\
*Try including an experience % increase for easy as part of balancing.\
*Give "the long road" more replay value than fighting a naga.\
*Give the units in "Pebbles" traits.\

\f0\b Story:
\f1\b0 \
* Give special but expendible units like Jarek and Moreth some lines, as a small reward if they player keeps them alive.\
* Give the slayer of the zombie leader in "choice" a line indicating that the zombie was not the root of the problem.}