.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.
.TH WESNOTH_EDITOR 6 "2007" "wesnoth_editor" "Battle for Wesnoth map editor"
.
.SH NAME
wesnoth_editor \- Battle for Wesnoth map editor
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.B wesnoth_editor
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fIMAP\fR]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Battle for
.B Wesnoth
map editor.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.BR --bpp \ number
sets BitsPerPixel value. Example:
.B --bpp 32
.TP
.B --datadir
selects the data directory to use.
.TP
.BR -f , \ --fullscreen
runs the editor in full screen mode.
.TP
.BR -h , \ --help
tells you what the command line options do.
.TP
.BR --log- level = domain1 , domain2 , ...
sets the severity level of the log domains.
.B all
can be used to match any log domain. Available levels:
.BR error ,\  warning ,\  info ,\  debug .
By default the
.B error
level is used.
.TP
.B --logdomains
Dumps a list of all log domains and exits.
.TP
.B --path
prints the name of the game data directory and exits.
.TP
.BI -r\  X x Y ,\ --resolution\  X x Y
sets screen resolution. Example:
.B -r 800x600
.TP
.BR -v , \ --version
prints version number and exits.
.TP
.BR -w , \ --windowed
runs the editor in windowed mode.

.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Written by David White <davidnwhite@verizon.net>.
.br
Edited by Nils Kneuper <crazy-ivanovic@gmx.net> and ott <ott@gaon.net>.
.br
This manual page was originally written by Cyril Bouthors <cyril@bouthors.org>.
.br
Visit the official homepage: http://www.wesnoth.org/
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.
Copyright \(co 2003-2007 David White <davidnwhite@verizon.net>
.br
This is Free Software; this software is licensed under the GPL version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.BR wesnoth (6),
.BR wesnothd (6)
